Minutes of CADE-22 Business Meeting, Montreal, August 4, 2009
*************************************************************

Minutes by: Christoph Benzmueller

Date:  August 4th, 2009
Start: approx. 18:00 
End:   approx. 19:20

The CADE-22 Business Meeting was chaired by Reiner Haehnle, CADE
vice-president, since the CADE president Franz Baader was not able to
attend CADE-22.

The presentation slides of Reiner Haehnle are available at
http://www.cadeconference.org/ -> Business Meetings



*** Topic 1: Secretary of the meeting

Wolfgang Ahrend, the official CADE secretary, could not attend
CADE-22. Christoph Benzmueller is instead nominated and elected at the
beginning of the meeting as a substitute secretary.


*** Topic 2: Report of Renate Schmidt, CADE-22 PC Chair

The presentation slides of Renate Schmidt are available at
http://www.cadeconference.org/ -> Conferences

Short Summary: Renate Schmidt reports that CADE-22 had 77 submissions
of which 32 were accepted.  The numbers are a little bit down compared
to IJCAR-08 and a little bit up compared to CADE-21. The acceptance
rate of CADE-22 matches the average acceptance rates over the last
years. There are no big surprises in the submission statistics for
different countries, except probably, for the low acceptance rate for
papers from Canada and the low acceptance rate for some individual
topics, for example, types and logical frameworks.


*** Topic 3: Report of Brigitte Pientka, CADE-22 Organizer

The presentation slides of Brigitte Pientka are available at
http://www.cadeconference.org/ -> Conferences

Short Summary: Brigitte Pientka reports that there were 115 registered
participants for CADE-22. Moreover, 105 participants were registered
for day 1 of the workshops/tutorials and 110 participants for day 2.
There are no big surprises in the registration/participation
statistics for different countries. Brigitte explains that she did try
to obey the CADE/IJCAR principles that every event break even and that
the Woody Bledsoe Travel Awards should be budgeted. A total of $ 7,075
(approx. 10% of the budget) was spent on the 15 Woody Bledsoe Awards
of CADE-22. Several sponsors, including McGill University, have
supported CADE-22.


*** Topic 4: Report of Neil Murray, CADE Treasurer

The presentation slides of Neil Murray will be available at
http://www.cadeconference.org/ -> Conferences

Short Summary: Neil explains that the CADE budget is doing very
well. More than $ 50,000 are on the bank account, of which approx. $
15,000 are earmarked for IJCAR. Neil emphasizes again that every
conference should at least break even and that conference budgets are
generally expected to include the Woody Bledsoe Travel
Awards. Brigitte Pientka confirms again that the Wood Bledsoe Awards
have been budgeted for CADE-22.

Maria Paola Bonacina asks about seed funds for IJCAR-08 and
CADE-21. Neil confirms that these conferences neither requested nor
received any seed funds. Brigitte Pientka remarks that this is also
the case for CADE-22.


*** Topic 5: Future CADE and IJCAR Conferences

(A) IJCAR 2010

Reiner Haehnle presents the plans for IJCAR 2010. Details are
available on his slides: -- slides --

Short summary: IJCAR 2010 will be held in Edinburgh, Scotland, as part
of FLOC. The constituent meetings are CADE, FroCoS, FTP, and Tableaux.
The PC chairs are Juergen Giesl and Reiner Haehnle, the organizer is
Alan Bundy, and the workshop chair is Aaron Stump. The PC will consist of
approx. 44 persons and is currently being formed. The proceedings will
be published as Springer LNCS. The FLOC keynote speakers will be David
Basin and Deepak Kapur, hence, the CADE community is well represented
by this choice. The IJCAR invited speakers will be determined soon
after the IJCAR PC is finalized.


(B) CADE 2011

Reiner Haehnle explains that CADE 2011 should ideally be located
either in Europe or in North America. He reports that IJCAI 2011 will
be organized in Barcelona, Spain, and that the PC chair of IJCAI will
be Toby Walsh. IJCAI 2011 has offered to collocate CADE with it. In
this case an own local organizer for CADE will be required -- the
importance of this is also emphasized by a comment of Maria Paola
Bonacina.  Geoff Sutcliffe remarks that we should soon contact
potential candidates for Barcelona.

Andrei Voronkov points out that 2012 there will be an Alan Turing Year
celebrated in the UK (in Manchester and other places) and that major
scientific events will then be hosted in the UK. Hence, it might be
interesting to consider a collocation of IJCAR 2012 with these events.
Such a choice would however speak against a CADE 2011 in Europe and
for an organization of CADE 2011 in North America.

Generally, the impression was that there was good support in the business
meeting for the Barcelona proposal, at least there were no objections
other than Andrei's remark.


*** Topic 6: CADE Trustees 

The terms of Franz Baader, Peter Baumgartner and Aaron Stumps are
ending. Of those only Aaron Stump is re electable.

The trustee nominations received prior to the BM were:

Renate Schmidt (nominated by Reiner Haehnle ,seconded by Martin Giese)
Aaron Stump (nominated by Peter Dybier, seconded by Koen Claessen)
Christoph Weidenbach (nominated by Geoff Sutcliffe, seconded by Renate Schmidt)
Christopher Lynch (nominated by Franz Baader, seconded by Juergen Giesl)
Brigitte Pientka (nominated by Amy Felty, seconded by Maria Paola Bonacina)

The new nominations received at the Business Meeting are:

Konstantin Korovin (nominated by Andrei Voronkov, seconded by Stefan Schulz)
Rajeev Gore (nominated by Peter Baumgartner, seconded by Neil Murray)


*** Topic 7: SigLog

Reiner Haehnle briefly reports on the (still ongoing) founding of
SigLoG under the umbrella of ACM. Goals of SigLoG include to better
foster our area, to improve its recognition and visibility, and to
support the organization of conferences and events. CADE has been
asked to join SiGLoG and is considering to do so.

Christoph Benzmueller asks about the intended relationship of SigLog
and IFCOLOG. IFCOLOG has been founded in the 90's with similar goals
as SigLog. Moshe Vardi, who is now the driving force behind SigLog,
has only recently stepped down as Chairman of IFCOLOG. It seems that
relevant information on the SigLog versus IFCOLOG issue has not been
well communicated. Rainer Haehnle mentions that he does not have any
further information. Uli Furbach points out that on the IFCOLOG
website the link to CADE and several other conference is wiped out and
that he does not know what this actually means.


*** Topic 8: Misc

Stefan Schulz points out that he would welcome a more timely
dissemination of information related to conferences and its workshops.

Moreover, Stefan Schulz brings up the question with whom CADE should
publish its Conference Proceedings in the long run. Uli Furbach
remarks that this question seems rather an issue for the CADE
trustees. Geoff Sutcliffe points out that there has been an intensive
discussion amongst the trustees last year, in particular, about the CD
versus hardcover issue. While the issue remains to be open and
relevant in the long run, the choice for this years CADE has been to
stick with hardcover Springer LNCS proceedings. Brigitte Pientka says
that the deadlines for CD proceedings with Springer are even worse
than the hardcover deadlines and that not only the price should be
considered as a factor but rather the combination of price and time.
Andrei Voronkov expresses his interest in reconsidering the choice to
publish hardcover proceedings with Springer and he mentions that
Springer is currently facing financial troubles. Reiner Haehnle
suggests to distinguish between the following two issues: (a) Do we
want to continue publishing with Springer or do we want to consider
alternatives?  (b) Do we want hardcover or CD proceedings?  Maria
Paola Bonacina points out that while non-profit organizations may
appear interesting alternatives at first look we should be very
careful about possible lobbying and special interest groups behind
these alternatives. Andrei Voronkov remarks that it will be very
important to consider only alternatives that guarantee durability and
that offer a long term perspective. Reiner Haehnle emphasizes that the
quality and international standing of publications is an important
factor, in particular, for young researchers. Hence, any alternative
we may want to consider should have an excellent standing.  Renate
Schmidt says that her experience with EasyChair and Springer was
excellent for this years CADE and that everything went very well.



